Now that you have a local WordPress installation let's mess with it.
We'll check out the file structure play with how WordPress connects to the database by changing the
RL breaking Web site and then fixing it again by editing the database tables.
something that's not possible through WordPress itself.
In this video you'll learn several skills that can help you save a hacked or broken web site and learn
Sweet.
Make sure you have map open and the servers are running before you can navigate to your local development
the users area at a dot site Ground dot com and click the log in button and go ahead and log in with
Once you're there in the user area you can go down to the right hand side and click go to admin panel.
Usually right click and open a new tab so that I can maintain the site Ground user account area in a
When you go to that new tab by using that go to admin panel button skycraft will log you into your Wordpress
Alternatively as you know you can navigate opening a new tab to the U r l of your site ground site and
and you'll be right there.
Of course if you do that first before logging in using the site Ground dashboard you'll get this log
Outside of the provided students sandbox you can either use your site Ground live site or your local
Using map whichever you prefer.
Go ahead and log in and let's explore where themes and plug ins are located.
Appearance themes is where we see the default theme 2016 active and a couple of other themes that come
with Wordpress and then if you click plugins installed plug ins you'll see that they're located in a
Let's play with Hello Dolly activate that plug in an original plug in by founder of Wordpress Matt Mullen
We look at the file structure under map H.T. docs WP of course one where the plug ins and the themes
Now it's important to know that you don't want to change any files under W.P. dash admin though the
dash includes or any of the files in the core structure besides the config file.
But the WP Dasch content file is where all your content including uploads.
Once you upload a file to the media library it'll create an uploads folder here and the plug ins and
And if you're using your site Ground live environment you can go back into the site Ground user area
and click go to see panel the control panel will give you access to that file manager that we used in
So inside the see panel go down a little bit further to where I can see files and click file manager
under W.P. content you can see that I have plug ins and themes and this time I have upgrade and uploads
as well.
Upgrade is created automatically by WordPress for updates of the software and uploads is created for
But under plug ins there is my list of installed plugins.
Now if you end up with a plug in conflict where you have an active plug in or you activate one that
An easy way to go in and rectify that situation is to go in via FCP.
If you're on a live web server or here using Windows Explorer you can go in and see which plugins are
Here this one instead of being in a folder being a very simple plug in is just a single file.
If you go in and just rename a plugin file I'll just put Dasch rename after it.
I've have activated and it says the plug in Hello duppy HP has been deactivated.
The plugin file does not exist.
the plug in and then that can bring your website either back live or eliminate the plug in conflict.
If you are having one.
So now if I go back and into Windows Explorer I just go back and rename that plug in back to what it
This is one way to troubleshoot conflicts with your web site as you're building it.
You can see it if I refresh the page here in the Wordpress dashboard that plug in is now D activated
and this is a good way to make your web site and your dashboard back active again.
settings here we could see that one of the first couple of things we have is the title and the tag line
but the word address on the site address are the third the fourth fields in the general settings panel
and you could see that the URLs are the same.
But let's explore where these your L's are located within the database and find out how to change those
and why we would in the first place.
So if you navigate to the map start page again you can right click and open the PMI admin panel in a
new tab which I've already done up here and here we are in the database and I can click the WP.
WordPress.
And if you are using the same ground live site you can go down to the database sections in the see panel
and open Ph.
My admin.
It's the same exact utility that map uses and databases on the live site are located right here.
options.
and the first two are the site you are and the home.
Over here you can double click right here and change that to what you want.
change the row inside of the table.
In
the database.
Now if I change those two I can go back and if I just refresh the dashboard here you can see that the
Now of course I cannot access my website dashboard or the website itself through this domain name.
Of course one dot com unless I own that domain name and I have the domain pointed to the server using
This is something you might run across as you migrate sites from either a staging environment into the
building in one place under a testing you are all over to another live.
You are all on the server.
As well as if you're building a site and testing your L and then you point the domain finally to the
building the web site.
Now if you can't navigate to the Web site or the dashboard because the DNS settings are already pointed
What happens if I try to go to localhost where I know the site is located local or slashed of.
Of course one slash W.P. the admin.
If I navigate there there's a problem loading the page server's not found because it wants to redirect
to wherever the database tells it to redirect so.
On the server or in your home development environment your local development environment you can navigate
so that I can actually continue building the site.
If you remember that would be local host slash W.P. of course one
and then I'll do the same thing with the home Yoro
and now I can be sure that if I want to go to local host there would be that of course one my web web
site should be back working again.
Yes here it is.
And I'm still love them so I can actually go to the dashboard and continue working on the site.
So give that a try yourself.
Break the website and then fix it again by editing the site you are l and the home your URL in the database
OK.
Now let's take a look at some more of the file structure under themes and I'm going to navigate to the
Let's go ahead and just verify that here it is.
And one of the main files that performs lay out functions and defines how the content is displayed in
Sometimes this will be a file that you might make changes on to customize a web site but there's a best
Let's take a look inside WordPress by default the Wordpress dashboard comes with under the appearance
This is a place where you can successfully edit things like the style sheet but let's take a look over
Here is the function Scott ph P file.
Now we'll discuss creating child themes to successfully and properly edit the functions stop DHP file
without breaking the theme or even changing the parent theme at all.
But for now if we look at the function stoppie HP file it's got some ph p code in here that usually
has depending on the theme that you have open.
But what if we come down here to the very bottom of the theme and what if I go over here and by accident
I get rid of a semi-colon and then I update that file.
Now here we go I have a white screen.
screen.
I wonder if my live Web site lets refresh the Web site.
Oh boy.
I just broke my website completely.
The live site if I was working on it is now producing a white screen for visitors and I can't even get
Well similar to renaming a plug in you can edit that functions that file outside of the Wordpress dashboard
and you can fix what you just broke.
So let's go back into the file structure.
I'll do this with Windows Explorer on my local machine.
But in a live site I could go in via P via FCP and I could look for the files I need to edit.
So under H.T. docs Here's my EPD of course one site under W.P. content theme's 2016.
Here's the function Zappy H-P file that I just edited in the Wordpress dashboard.
If I right click that I'll open it in my text editor Adam my code editor
and as that's opening up here it is the file I was just looking at inside of WordPress.
I can now access via FCP or using Windows Explorer.
If I go to the bottom I can see my missing semi-colon.
Now if I was adding some code maybe copying and pasting some code into my functions that BHP file to
and get back to where I was or hopefully I'd had made a backup of a working function stop the HP file
in control as to save the file and since that's just located here on my local machine I don't have to
It's already here.
Cross your fingers.
Ah.
I'm back in OK.
I say is back working again.
If I refresh the actual site.
Great.
Take a deep breath.
I've just fixed the site.
So go ahead and break your own site open the functions that the HP file.
Remove a semi-colon and then save that update the file and then go ahead and go in via Windows Explorer.
Open the functions that THP file in your code editor replace what you changed and then go back into
Nice job.
One more thing.
Let's go ahead and look at user accounts.
You should probably be the only user within your account in wordpress and you can see your Wordpress
email there.
Your role as administrator.
name.
Maybe my site was getting recognized and trying to get hacked and they've recognized my username and
Perhaps you're editing someone else's WordPress installation that's older and is using the traditional
admin as a user name which is best practice not to use because it's too recognizable for hackers.
Well let's go ahead and change the user name using the database so navigate back to the database or
go back there if you already have it open.
Let's look at our WordPress tables again.
And let's see under W.P. users I can see that there's a user here user log in is where the user name
is located.
Now if I just double click that row I could change that to a different username.
What if I just add my middle initial and hit enter.
Great.
Oh it's logged me out because there is no more.
So I wonder if I can log in.
Whoops.
Using the same username and password except I've added an s my middle initial Great let's look at my
So if you need to change the user name from admin to something different or do that you don't have to
You can go into the database and edit that username in this lesson.
The database and the themes functions dopy H-P file.
First you edited a plugins name to deactivate it in case of a plug in conflict breaking the Web site.
Then you encountered the White screen of death where you couldn't access the site or the dashboard and
P file using your code editor.
Finally you are able to change the user name of the administrator account by editing the database row
for that user.
Great job in the next video will go over your student sandbox at W.P. of course dot com in detail and
See there